# Matrix-Speedups

- This project was definitely really interesting. Prior to this project, speeding up functions was more of an abstract thing to me. However, the idea of implementing these matrix functions in C and then going back to speed them up was a moment of realization for me, particularly in the power of SIMD, cache optimization, and OpenMP. Although concepts in this class seem like they don't necessarily apply to software engineering, I realized that this is far from the case. Having a working knowledge of what the computer is doing under the hood with data goes a long way in optimizing for performance. Going from the naive C approach to the SIMD/parallelized/optimized versions was a power way to demonstrate this principle.</b>
- Aside from getting additional experience with SIMD, parallelization, and OpenMP, I also learned of some interesting algorithms that are used for speeding up functions. In particular, a favorite of mine was the repeated squaring algorithm that I used in pow_matrix. The concept is rather simple in the mathematics it uses, but is super powerful when looking at performance. The number of computations that would take a long time to complete that could now be computed in a reasonable time is amazing. In the future, I would hope to continue adding clever optimizations like this in my code to go hand in hand with other tools like SIMD and OpenMP that are given.</b>
- For this project, there isn't anything too extreme that I would change. The spec largely did a good job at guiding us in the right direction relating to algorithms and functions that would be helpful. One thing I would look into, though, is doing pow recursively. I inititially did it this way, but was having trouble with memory leaks. However, my performance was very fast in the power function. Now that I have resolved the memory leak issue, going back to see the kind of performance I could get with recursion and the mul_matrix optimizations would be an interesting avenue to explore.</b>
